on the 18th of June 2024 Nvidia became
the most valuable company in the world
at $ 3.34 trillion they overtook
Microsoft Apple Samsung alphabet it's
hard to stress just how big of a deal
this is I mean Pokémon you know the
highest grossing media franchise in the
world this could buy that company 36
times and we know Nvidia you might even
be watching this video using one of
their graphics cards in your PC but
we're talking a company that overtook
Apple you know the guys who managed to
sell luxury smartphones to like a third
of the world population you don't beat
that just with some high-end PC graphics
cards so what on Earth have a media done
to a get themselves to a position where
they could even dream of overtaking all
the other big tech companies and B
actually overtake them and one thing
that I need to make super clear which
makes this all the more surprising is
that Nvidia only started in 1993 which
is recent enough that the guy who is now
CEO Jensen hang he was the same guy who
founded the company along with two other
guys Jensen used to work as a waiter's
assistant in a local Denny's Dino when
he was younger he fell in love with
computer science and So eventually went
from there to getting his dream job
working with AMD one of the leaders at
the time as a microprocessor designer
until one day when he decided I got an
idea Jensen basically realized the key
thing that was holding PCS back from
unparalleled performance which I'm
getting to so he booked a table all the
way back where it began at a Denny's
diner with these two other guys and that
is famously where they hatched the plan
to form Nvidia there's literally a
plaque on the wall where that meeting
happened but in video didn't have its
name at this point do you know where
that came from well most of the guy's
files documenting their plans about this
future company had been pretty
uncreative named next version so when
they decided that we're actually doing
this they looked up words that included
Envy in that order and they found the
Latin word Invidia which is the name of
an ancient Roman goddess Invidia was the
personification of Envy a pretty
unpleasant lady with a poison tongue and
green eyes thus the name Nvidia was born
so the brand name basically means next
version Envy kind of saying you're going
to be so jealous of our next chip and
now that you know where the Greene Eye
logo comes from you too will no longer
be able to see it without also seeing
this haunting image alongside it so
you're welcome and now that you know you
will see this origin all across their
branding too like the slogan for the
GeForce 8 series graphics cards was
Green With Envy and the company's
highest n gpus for a long time they were
called Titans and this Nvidia was
believed by some ancient Greeks to be
the daughter of a Titan so it all LS
together but what actually made Nvidia
different what was this big idea that
they were getting together for well in
1999 Nvidia released the GeForce 256 the
first chip ever to be marketed as a
graphics Processing Unit or GPU a piece
of Hardware that could sit alongside
your CPU which at this time could only
process one calculation at a time and
take on the graphics rendering load
while you're gaming using far more
efficient parallel processing it was
designed to divide big tasks that would
previously be done very slowly into
smaller parts and then distribute those
parts amongst many many small process of
CES which in turn freed up people's
actual CPUs to focus on things like
in-game physics the concept of the GPU
quickly caught on in both PC and console
gaming which pretty much revolutionized
gaming and very quickly turned Nvidia
into a household name and Nvidia has
absolutely killed it with gpus ever
since then um fun fact actually this is
the graphics card I installed on the
first ever PC I built every couple of
years they come on stage they've
announced a new generation of graphics
cards and they've been so successful at
making each one a leap above the last
that they're now out selling their
traditional rival AMD you know the
company who Jensen originally got his
dream job working at to a ridiculous
extent with nvidia's first quarter
Revenue this year at $26 billion
compared to amd's well measly 5.5
billion but they didn't get as big as
they are today just by coasting on GPU
sales here's the rocket fuel that made
their growth just explode Nvidia made a
huge bet on AI in 2006 Nvidia released
Cuda compute unified device architecture
which they could have done a better job
naming for something that's actually a
bit of a game changer it was a software
platform that allowed the developers of
apps to properly utilize the full power
of Nvidia gpus even for non-g graphics
tasks developers could take tasks that
would usually be performed one by one on
the CPU course and instead just like
they've been able to do with games on
Nvidia gpus split those tasks up and
perform parallel processing using the
thousands of GPU calls they now had
access to this was a big moment for apps
it made nvidia's graphics cards the tool
for much more than just gaming they
became the gold standard for video
editors for financial modelers
cryptocurrency miners anyone who wanted
to do anything with a computer and most
importantly for any company wanting to
build and train a big powerful AI model
how do you do that not on CPUs which are
doing things one step at a time but
instead by harnessing the full power of
a GPU and which GP are you most likely
going to pick Nvidia Nvidia being the
first company to unlock the full
computational power of the GPU for the
average developer meant that their Cuda
software became the default option
developers got comfy with it it improved
very quickly and because this Cuda
programming environment was built
specifically around nvidia's Graphics
chips it was super efficient it's very
similar to how efficient iPhones are
because every thread of that iOS
software is designed around every
fragment of the iPhone hardware and with
this by being very forward Thinking by
working with other tech companies on AI
for literally the last two decades
Nvidia became embedded into the very
fabric of artificial intelligence
whether it's researchers wanting to run
complex simulations to figure out what
proteins could potentially cure major
diseases or Tesla wanting to train
algorithms for their self-driving cars
Nvidia became the crutch to lenon
literally right now Tesla is nearing
completion on a supercomputer cluster at
their Texas gigafactory which is
supposed to improve Tesla's full
self-driving using $50,000 Nvidia gpus
and a sub to the channel would be GP
youtiful that also could have been
better and so when AI development
exploded over the last couple of years
with every single person and their dog
now having access to tools like chat gbt
Gemini and more what's running all of
that when we ask for an image of a
robotic Flamingo doing rolly poy on the
moon what's processing that AI request
yes Nvidia but another crazy bit of
context nvidia's Tech is also what
powers Amazon web services which is the
world's most broadly adopted web
services provider they're the company
who builds the infrastructure for
basically 30% of the cloud-based
internet so the chances are pretty high
that anytime you visit a website there
is NVIDIA Tech somewhere along the
pipeline that's bringing it to you so
that explains the first part of this
puzzle how Nvidia became the sole arms
dealer of the chips required for the now
massive AI industry arms race but how
did they go one step further to actually
overtake every single other tech company
in June well they decided to do a 10:1
stock split and to find out what that is
I can just ask the Arya AI baked into
the Opera browser explain to me a 10:1
stock split in two sentences with an
example right so a 10 to1 stock split
means that each existing share of a
stock is divided into 10 new shares and
then it gives an example to say that if
you owned 100 shares of a company and
they did a 10 to1 stock split you would
now have a th000 shares in your
possession but the total value of your
investment is the same because it's just
that now each individual share is worth
a tenth of what it used to be why does
that matter well it means that for new
investors Nvidia shares have just gotten
10 times more affordable so it makes
investing in this company much more
accessible at a time where the entire
world is looking for some way to invest
in AI it became a no-brainer it was
explosive as for now and the future
while Nvidia has been hit with a pretty
severe Market correction so they backed
down into third most valuable company
and while there are some question marks
around AI like is it being over valued
in the same way that the dotom bubble
was and can the world sustain it cuz you
know there was a recent study that
showed that at the current rate of
growth our AI needs alone will consume
the amount of power of an entire country
the size of the Netherlands but even
then now that the AI cat is out the bag
it doesn't look like AI is going
anywhere and even if it does there's no
changing that the world is going digital
movies are now being made using game
engine Graphics surgeons are now honing
their craft using digital twins of
patients before operating on the real
thing the metav if that ever comes to
fruition it's all being powered by
Nvidia gpus so that's how Nvidia got to
the crazy position that they're
currently in and by the way Arya isn't
even the most fun thing about the Opera
browser anymore so you've seen how tab
Islands can help you group together all
of your tasks into buckets so they're
organized but now you can hover over any
Tab and add a tab Emoji too why well
aside from a delightful Touch of
customization I've had two benefits from
this one that every time I have two
similar tabs open this allows me to
differentiate them instead of
persistently gaslighting myself into
opening the wrong one every time but
also when you're browsing you tend to
have one or two key tabs like for me
it's the document I'm compiling all of
my research into and tab emojis mean
that even if you've got like 40 things
open at once I always know to return to
my cooking Emoji so give it a go using
my link in the description